docs: deepen threat-modeling guidance and framework landscape (#31)
ossf/security-assessments: guidance/background/threat-modeling/actors.md

Back in earlier days of computing, many computer systems were fairly isolated from each other and programs needed to be secure in this environment. Hence the number of actors was small, often just a server, a client, and an attacker. In modern systems that consist of many distributed and isolated components, the number of actors can be very large.

To see how large modern systems can get, consider a few examples:

> - A **package signing system** (such as Sigstore) integrated with a public software registry (such as PyPI). Actors include the registry server, the registry administrators, the certificate authorities trusted to issue keys, parties that control BGP and/or DNS, the developers who publish packages, the CDN that distributes them, the end users downloading them, and outsiders. The signing system itself adds another ten or so actors of its own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **package signing system** (such as Sigstore) integrated with a public software registry (such as PyPI). Actors include the registry server, the registry administrators, the certificate authorities trusted to issue keys, parties that control BGP and/or DNS, the developers who publish packages, the CDN that distributes them, the end users downloading them, and outsiders. And this is all without considering Sigstore.  Sigstore itself adds another half dozen or so actors of its own!
```

- A **library** consumed as a dependency. Actors include the maintainer, the package registry, downstream applications, transitive dependencies of the library, the CI systems that build downstream apps, and — crucially — the future versions of the library that will be pulled in automatically by version-range resolution.
- A **commercial SaaS product**. Actors include the customer's end users, the customer's administrators, the SaaS provider's operators, cloud infrastructure providers, third-party integrations and webhooks, billing/identity providers, and the broader internet.
- An **internal enterprise application**. Actors include employees with various role levels, contractors, the IT team, the SSO provider, the corporate network, audit and compliance teams, backup systems, and any vendors with privileged access.

In every case the actor list looks daunting at first. The next sections describe techniques for grouping actors with equivalent capabilities so the model stays manageable.

> For example, for many systems a party that can control the network has similar capabilities in many cases independent of whether they control routers, BGP, or DNS. So, for threat models that focus on higher level communication properties between actors over higher level network protocols, the distinction of exactly how an actor controls the network may not matter.

Reviewer 2: A second way to group actors is by creating partitions where every actor on one side of the partition has equivalent capabilities (for example, for a CLI or library, every system _before_ the package manager upload can be grouped into a "supply chain" such that you don't have to separately consider the impact of the source forge, build system, maintainer, etc in combination with the user or shell environment).  This is covered a little bit in compartmentalization, but I feel like an example of how this can simplify the model would be helpful.

It may also be worth calling out that we're modelling _interactions_ between actors, which means that more actors can produce N^2 problems in enumerating attacks.

Reviewer 2: Here's some suggested text if you want it:

```suggestion
For example, for many systems a party that can control the network has similar capabilities in many cases independent of whether they control routers, BGP, or DNS. So, for threat models that focus on higher level communication properties between actors over higher level network protocols, the distinction of exactly how an actor controls the network may not matter.

Similarly, many models can separate the _software supply chain_ (maintainers, source control, build systems, library dependencies) from software execution. Segmenting the threat model in this way reduces the number of actor interactions that need to be considered -- rather than "maintainer impacts user", "build impacts user", and "library impacts user" cases, they can be summarized as "compromised software package impacts user".
```
